java/isogram mentoring notes (#2135)
exercism/website-copy: tracks/java/exercises/isogram/mentoring.md

# Mentoring

## Reasonable Solutions

### Using Streams

```java
public class IsogramChecker {
    public boolean isIsogram(String word) {

        String noSpacesOrHyphens = word.replaceAll("(?:\\s|-)", "").toLowerCase();

        return noSpacesOrHyphens.chars().distinct().count() == noSpacesOrHyphens.length();        
    }
}

```

### Using a Set

```java
class IsogramChecker {
  public boolean isIsogram(String input) {
    Set<Character> tmp = new HashSet<Character>();
    for(char ch : input.toLowerCase().toCharArray()) {
        if (Character.isLetter(ch) && !tmp.add(ch)) {
            return false;
        }
    }
    return true;
  }
}
```

## Talking points

> - Solutions that use the Collections Framework should opt for a Set interface to check for duplicates instead of Maps and Lists. Sets don’t allow duplicates, so they are best fit for this check.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Solutions that use the Collections Framework should opt for a Set interface to check for duplicates instead of Maps and Lists. Sets don’t allow duplicates, so they are the best fit for this check.
```

> - Solutions that use the Collections Framework should opt for a Set interface to check for duplicates instead of Maps and Lists. Sets don’t allow duplicates, so they are the best fit for this check.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Solutions that use the Collections Framework should opt for a Set interface to check for duplicates instead of Maps and Lists. Sets do not allow duplicates, so they are the best fit for this check.
```

> - The `add()` method in the Set interface returns a boolean value indicating if the value is already present or not. This can be used to stop code execution earlier, instead of building the entire Set and later on checking its size against the original String.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `add()` method in the Set interface returns a Boolean value indicating if the value is already present or not. This can be used to stop code execution earlier, instead of building the entire Set and later on checking its size against the original String.
```

Author: Since the return is a primitive boolean, I think we should keep the word in lowercase. `Boolean` would imply a wrapper object.

Reviewer: Then should it be wrapped in a code block marking?  `boolean` because it is a primitive Boolean, as opposed to a wrapper named `Boolean` that is treated as a Boolean?

Author: Exactly, it is a primitive. There is a clear distinction in Java between `boolean` and `Boolean`. I'll add the code markings, thanks for the suggestion.

> - For brute force solutions that check every character against ever other character in the string (n² time complexity), you may point the strategies above to improve efficiency. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For brute force solutions that check every character against every other character in the string (n² time complexity), you may point the strategies above to improve efficiency. 
```

> - For brute force solutions that check every character against every other character in the string (n² time complexity), you may point the strategies above to improve efficiency. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For brute force solutions that check every character against every other character in the string (n² time complexity), you may point to the strategies above to improve efficiency. 
```

> - One common algorithm to check for duplicates is to use an array as a hand-made counter. Each character points to an index of the array and that element is incremented according to the characters frequency. This is  fine for the tests, but it tends to overlook any non-letter characters. It is worth to note that Strings in Java are not limited to ASCII chars and the code might break for other characters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- One common algorithm to check for duplicates is to use an array as a hand-made counter. Each character points to an index of the array and that element is incremented according to the characters frequency. This is fine for the tests, but it tends to overlook any non-letter characters. It is worth to note that Strings in Java are not limited to ASCII characters and the code might break for other characters.
```

> - One common algorithm to check for duplicates is to use an array as a hand-made counter. Each character points to an index of the array and that element is incremented according to the characters frequency. This is fine for the tests, but it tends to overlook any non-letter characters. It is worth to note that Strings in Java are not limited to ASCII characters and the code might break for other characters.

Reviewer: The test code might break or the student solution might break?  How might the code break?  Also, letters are a specific kind of character, so in an Isogram solution, I would expect that only letters are collected (though non-letters can be given).  So I might say that it should "overlook any non-letter characters".

Author: There are special characters used as letters that are not limited to the ASCII range, which is usually the choice for the array size. If any of these letters is used, the student solution will break.
Since this type of solution is very rare in the java track, I will not add it to the mentoring notes.

Reviewer: The comment was only to identify which code might break, as it only says "the code might break" and does not indicate the test code or the student solution code.  I feel like it might be helpful in the note to specify which code is being at risk. If it is that the test code might break, then we should probably fix that.

Author: Sure, I see your point. I was referring to the student's solution. I ended up removing this paragraph from these notes, since I felt it would be rarely used.
